Story Recapped here. Today I'm going
to explain a psychological horror film
called It Comes At Night. Spoilers
ahead! Watch out and take care.
A highly contagious disease has wiped out most of
humanity. Sarah, Paul, and their son Travis hide
in a cottage in the woods to escape the plague.
When Sarah's father, Bud, starts showing symptoms
of the disease, Sarah says goodbye to him before
letting her husband and son take him to the woods.
There, Paul sets his father-in-law down. After
saying their goodbyes, Paul covers Bud's face with
a pillow and shoots him on the head. Paul pushes
the body on a shallow grave before burning it.
That evening, Travis secretly
listens to his parent's conversation.
Sarah laments that Travis shouldn't have been
there to witness his grandfather's death,
but Paul insists that he needed Travis's
help. Paul is optimistic that he can
protect his family from this disease.
But the grieving Sarah is losing hope.
Not wanting to hear more, Travis
heads to his bedroom to sleep. He
reminisces as he looks at
his grandfather's picture.
Travis walks down the hallway, seeing
their family photos on the wall.
He reaches a red door and opens it. Inside,
plastic sheets cover the windows and door.
He sees Bud sitting on a bed, huddled
over and struggling to breathe.
When he gets closer, Bud straightens up
and screams, blood pouring from his mouth.
Sarah shakes her son awake, panicked.
There's an intruder in the house.
Downstairs, Paul keeps their dog, Stanley, from
rushing to the intruder. Sarah and Travis join
them, wearing gas masks and gloves. Paul aims
his gun forward, shining a light on their path.
They reach the same hallway in Travis's
dream. Someone is beyond the red door,
alarming the family. Paul crouches, aiming
at the door, with Sarah as his backup.
The door breaks open, and Paul pulls the
trigger. The man on the other side staggers back.
Paul rushes in, cornering the intruder, Will,
and demanding him to put down his gun. Will
surrenders his firearm, and Paul inspects
Will's eyes to make sure he's not sick.
After confirming that Will is alone, Paul
knocks him out with the back of his gun.
Paul inspects the man's belongings and sees
an open window. He then checks the perimeter,
ensuring that no one else is around
while Sarah and Travis watch Will.
That morning, they take the unconscious
Will into the woods to quarantine him.
They tie him to a tree and
put duct tape over his mouth.
Then, the family fortifies their home
to prevent anyone else from coming in.
Will finally wakes up, finding a bag over
his head. He tries to yell and struggle free,
but to no avail. Everyone at home hears his
muffled cries. Sarah is disturbed by what
they had to do. Travis hugs Stanley
to help him sleep through the night.
At night, Travis walks outside,
following Will's muffled cries.
Instead, he sees Will with blackened eyes staring
down at him. He wakes up, disturbed by the image.
On the following day, Travis watches from a hole
in the wall as his father interrogates Will.
Paul checks for any signs of
infection before removing his mask.
He offers the other a jug of
water in return for some honesty.
Finally, he removes the duct
tape, allowing the man to speak.
Will confesses that he thought the house was
abandoned, so he went in and looked for supplies.
He reveals that he has a family who's waiting for
him to get more food and water. Paul presses for
more information, unconvinced. Will says that he
and his family stayed with his brother to avoid
the disease. But when they ran out of clean
water, Will took his family into the woods.
Will negotiates a trade, telling Paul that
he has enough food to trade for clean water.
Will's family managed to keep healthy goats
and chickens to supply them with food.
Knowing that their supply will
run out, Paul considers it.
The family discusses the situation inside their
home. Sarah figured that Will must have followed
the smoke from when they burned her father's body,
doubting that he believed the house was abandoned.
Despite their doubts, however, Sarah suggests
bringing Will's family back into their home.
Paul argues that it's too risky. But
Will already knows their location,
so Sarah argues that it's wiser to include
them in their home to help protect it.
Paul decides that he'll wait with Will's family
for three days to ensure that they're not sick
before bringing them in. Paul takes
Will with him to collect his family.
Will sits at the back of the truck,
giving Paul directions. There's unease
between them, but they press on.
The sound of gunfire causes Paul to swerve off the
road. Paul climbs out of the car and hides under
the vehicle with his gun in hand. A stranger
emerges out of the woods, and Paul shoots him.
He gets out, seeing Will beat another man. Paul
finishes the man with his gun, but Will disagrees
with his actions. Paul suspects that Will knew
the men. He denies it, reasoning that they
could've gained information from the men. Paul
considers this, realizing that Will may be right.
Paul helps Will clean up then checks if the men
were sick. Once confirming that they're not,
they hide the bodies and fix the truck. Paul
looks back at the men before they leave.
Days later, Paul finally returns with Will and his
family. He introduces Will's wife, Kim, and their
son, Andrew. The family helps the newcomers settle
in, teaching them the rules they've been using to
stay safe, such as keeping the front and back door
locked at all times and never going out alone.
In the evening, Travis goes to the
attic to eavesdrop on the newcomers.
Kim and Will joke around while in
bed with their son playing nearby.
The two families grow closer together
as the days go by. Will teaches Travis
how to chop firewood while Sarah and Kim
help each other to maintain their home.
They find a sense of a normal life
amidst the troubles of the outside world.
One evening, Travis dreams about hearing Kim and
Will make love. He wakes up to find Kim sitting
by his bed. She kisses him, and black liquid
spills from her mouth, pouring on his lips.
Travis huddles over the sink as if spitting the
liquid out. Looking at the mirror, he ponders over
the dreams he's been having. Travis climbs down
the stairs and sees Kim by herself in the kitchen.
Both he and Kim couldn't sleep, so they
decided to talk. The two share stories,
but when Kim starts talking about Will, Travis
feels awkward and decides to go back to bed.
In the morning, the three men gather firewood
when Paul catches his son, Travis, watching Kim
collect water. Paul reminds him that they still
can't trust anyone else but their own family.
Stanley starts barking at something in the woods.
Paul tells his son to go back inside and let him
handle it, but Stanley bites Paul, accidentally
releasing him. Travis chases after his dog,
who rushes into the woods. Despite
Stanley's consistent barking,
Travis doesn't see him. The barks turn
into whines before suddenly stopping.
Will finds Travis, who points
to where he last heard the dog.
Paul reaches them, furious that his son went
into the woods by himself. He insists the two
go back to the house, arguing that Stanley
knows the woods and can get home by himself.
That evening, seeing that
his son is still worried,
Paul assures that Stanley
will find his way back home.
When Travis isn't convinced, Paul promises
to start looking for the dog in the morning.
Paul invites Will for a drink in Bud's old room.
The two talk about life before the sickness.
When Will mentions that he was an only child,
Paul recalls Will's story about staying in
his brother's house before leaving the city.
Will corrects himself, saying that it was his
brother-in-law's house that they stayed in before.
Tension fills the air. Paul is not entirely
convinced but decides to drop it and leave.
Later that night, Travis gets out
of bed, unable to sleep again.
He follows a moaning in the dark and finds
Andrew asleep on the floor of Bud's room.
Travis wakes him up and takes him back
to their bedroom, where Andrew climbs
back to bed with his parents. Travis lingers to
watch the family together before heading back.
Another sound catches his attention.
He climbs down the stairs cautiously.
He reaches the hallway and sees the red
door open. A loud crash makes Travis jump.
He rushes to his dad, waking him up.
With gas masks on and gun in hand,
Paul and Will investigate and find
Stanley wounded and moaning in pain.
The two come back inside, delivering
the news to their families.
Travis insists on seeing his
dog, but Paul argues with him.
Sarah takes Travis to the living room while
Paul and Will put the dog out of its misery.
Later that evening, the family have a discussion.
Travis tells the others that the door was already
open before he went downstairs. He suggests
that it may have been Andrew who opened it,
recounting how he found the boy sleeping in Bud's
bedroom before taking him back to his parents.
Kim asks her son about what happened,
but Andrew doesn't remember anything.
Kim and Will try to poke holes in Travis' story
and this causes tension between the two families.
Paul suggests that they should stay in each
others' bedrooms for a few days, in case
someone is infected. The others agree, taking
in enough water and rations into their rooms.
In their bedroom, Travis confesses
that he held Andrew's hands when he
brought him back to his parents
that night. Travis is broken up,
both about Stanley and the possibility of
getting sick from having contact with Andrew.
Travis dreams about going to the red door again
and leaving the house. He follows barking into
the woods. Picking up a gun from the ground,
he searches for Stanley. The barks grow louder,
turning into growls. His eyes widen in fear as he
watches Stanley fight off an unseen wild animal.
Travis wakes up, vomiting black
liquid. He stares at the mess
in his arms before lifting his
eyes to the figure before him.
Bud breathes heavily in front of him,
black liquid dripping from his mouth.
Travis wakes again, catching a
glimpse of sores on his arms.
He scrubs it away before realizing that it
was just his imagination. His arms are normal,
and his hands are clean. He takes a breath
of relief until he hears Andrew's cries from
outside. Travis leaves their room and crawls
into the attic to eavesdrop on the other family.
Andrew continues to cry. Kim and Will are
distraught, talking about leaving the house.
Travis goes back to their room and tells his
parents what he heard, suggesting that Andrew
might be sick. Paul and Sarah put their
protective gear on, telling Travis that
if Kim and Will leave, they may take their food
and water. Travis argues that they can share,
but Paul reminds him that people can get
desperate, while Sarah tells him that they
still don't know the other family, so they can't
risk it. Travis tells them that if Andrew is sick,
then he might be too. Sarah tries to
convince her son that it isn't the case.
Armed, Sarah and Paul go to the
other bedroom to check on them.
Paul convinces Will to let him in,
reminding him that it's their house.
Will finally opens the door, asking
where Sarah and Travis are. Paul lies,
saying they're both in the room. Hearing this,
Will aims a gun at Paul's head and takes his gun.
Held at gunpoint, Paul goes
into a corner of the room.
Will demands he removes his mask, then tells
Andrew to keep his eyes closed. Will announces
that they'll take their share of food and water,
promising that they will never see them again.
With Paul as his captive, Will
gets his family out of the room.
As they climb down the stairs, Sarah
comes out, aiming her gun at Will.
Will repeats his plan to Sarah, then suggests
for both of them to lower their weapons.
But when they do, Paul steals the gun from Will
and knocks him down. Kim and Andrew reach the
door, but Sarah corners them. Kim puts Andrew
behind her, begging for Sarah to let them go.
All the while, Travis hears
the commotion from the bedroom,
broken and torn at what their home has become.
Tension continues to rise downstairs,
with Paul knocking Will out after the
latter insults him. Will wakes up in
a wheelbarrow. Kim carries Andrew,
still held at gunpoint by Sarah. When he
sees Will wake up, Paul takes him off the
wheelbarrow and demands him to get up. Will slams
the gun off of Paul's hand and tackles him down.
Travis finally gets out of the bedroom,
hearing a gunshot from outside.
Will beats Paul until Sarah shoots him
on the back. Kim flees into the woods
with Andrew. Getting up, Paul warns Kim to
stop. When she doesn't, Paul fires his gun,
hitting Andrew instead. Kim's cries
stop everyone, including Travis,
who just entered the scene. In grief and anger,
Kim dares Paul to shoot her too. Paul pushes down
the guilt and fires his gun at Kim, ending her
agony. Will succumbs to his injuries as well.
Travis is frozen in shock, seeing the chaos.
His mother cries to him, but he's unresponsive.
Back in the house, Travis vomits on the sink.
He looks in the mirror, now sure that he's sick.
One night, Travis wakes up in bed with his mother
sitting at his side. Sarah comforts her son,
seeing sores on his face. She mournfully
tells him that it's okay for him to let go.
Travis dreams of walking into the
red door again. At this moment,
Travis passes on. His parents are broken, losing
their son despite everything that they've done.
Days later, Paul and Sarah,
both sick from the disease,
sit at the dinner table in silence. They
share a mournful look, knowing what's to come.